Website of 4 pages with a navigation menu.

Topic is:
(Home Page)
AIRCRAFT 90-100 years ago

"The present generation is lucky in that, despite this instinctive
longing since the beginning of human history for the means of flight,
it is the first to see dreams and theories translated into fact by the
startling development of practical aviation, within the past fifteen
years. The aëronautical wonders of the next fifteen years are likely to
be yet more startling."
- Arthur Whitten Brown, 1920




-----------

Zeppelins

The U. S. Government has concluded arrangements (June, 1922) with the
Allied Powers whereby the U. S. Navy will receive a modern Zeppelin as a
part of America’s share of the aerial reparations.

This new Zeppelin will embody the very latest improvements in airship
design and will be delivered by being flown from Berlin across the
Atlantic to the Navy’s Airship Harbor at Lakehurst, New Jersey. It will
be built by Luftschiffbau-Zeppelin (Zeppelin Airship Building Co.,
Ltd.), at their Friedrichshafen Works and will be a 70,000 cubic meter
(2,400,000 cu. ft.) gas capacity commercial type, as it is intended that
it will be flown in the United States to demonstrate the safety and
practicability of long distance airship-transport. It will be delivered
by a Zeppelin crew. The arrival in the United States of this strictly
modern Zeppelin will no doubt create a wonderful interest as the
American people have never seen a real Zeppelin and it will give a great
impetus to airship activities throughout the world.




-----------

Limits of the Flying Machine.

In the opinion of competent experts it is idle to look for a commercial
future for the flying machine. There is, and always will be, a limit to
its carrying capacity which will prohibit its employment for passenger
or freight purposes in a wholesale or general way. There are some, of
course, who will argue that because a machine will carry two people
another may be constructed that will carry a dozen, but those who make
this contention do not understand the theory of weight sustentation in
the air; or that the greater the load the greater must be the lifting
power (motors and plane surface), and that there is a limit to these--as
will be explained later on--beyond which the aviator cannot go.

Some Practical Uses.

At the same time there are fields in which the flying machine may be
used to great advantage. These are:

Sports--Flying machine races or flights will always be popular by reason
of the element of danger. It is a strange, but nevertheless a true
proposition, that it is this element which adds zest to all sporting
events.

Scientific--For exploration of otherwise inaccessible regions such as
deserts, mountain tops, etc.

Reconnoitering--In time of war flying machines may be used to advantage
to spy out an enemy's encampment, ascertain its defenses, etc.



--------------

British Empire Aircraft in 1913

NEW ZEALAND

With regard to designing and building aircraft, New Zealand is doing nothing worth mentioning.
New Zealand has one aircraft, a Bleriot imported from France.


AUSTRALIA

Military Aviation.~

In January, 1913, the Australian Flying Corps was instituted, as a part
of the citizen forces. During 1913, about £5,600 is to be spent.

The force is to consist ultimately of 4 officers, 7 warrant officers and
sergeants, 32 mechanics.

The school is at Duntroon. Course includes--mechanics of the aeroplane,
aerial motors, meteorology, aerial navigation by compass, aerial
photography, signalling, etc. Mr. Harrison is in command with Lieut. H.
Petre as assistant.


Australian Aviators.~

  Banks, R. C.
  Busteed, H.
  Duigan, J. R.
  Hammond, J. J.
  Harrison
  Hart
  Lindsay, C.
  Petre, H.
  Pickles
  Watts


Private Aeroplanes.~

J. R. Duigan has built an aeroplane of his own design.